Cap.

Cap.

Cap.

Cap.

Cap.

Cap.

Cap.

Cap.

Cap .

Cap.

Cap.

Cap.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

CON T ENTS

Of the use and worthiness of prayer and medita-
tion

That the contemplative life is worthier, and of
more desert than active life, and about both of
them ; and of preaching and prelacy -

T hat the fire of love purifies vices and sins; and
of the signs of true friendship -

That perfect love mingles nought else with G0d;
and why and what one must love; and of the
blinding power of fleshly love -

Of the foulness of luxury and its danger3 and of
touching; also of the evil of avarice, and of
foolish mirth

Of perfect love, and what things are needful to
attain to spiritual song; and of affection and
punishment

Of the sighs‚ desire and humility of a perfect
loven and of the unlikeness of the love of God
and of the world; and of meditation -

Of true humility, and the manner of profiting by
adversities and the examples of the saints; and
of meditation on the passion of Christ -

That he who loves truly despises earthly things
and sighs for heavenly; and of avoiding pride
and embracing humility -

An instruction for those simple and newly-
converted who desire to love; and of avoiding
women

Of the secret judgment of God in those who fall
back to sin, but should not be judged by us;
and a stern denunciation of those who unjustly
acquire money

Why perfect contemplatives pay no heed to out-
ward songs; and concerning the error of those
who blame them, and the manner of advancing
in contemplation -

XV.

PAGE

- 203

- 204

- 207

- 209

· 211

- 214

- 216

- 219

· 222

- 226

- 230

— 232

