CURRENT LEARNING 4 5

For Ι have found certain rich men who gave food to those
whom they reckoned holy poor men: but they would not
give clothes or other necessaries, thinking they had done
enough if they had given food: and thus they make to
themselves but half-hearted friends; or they care no more
for the friendship of holy poor men, than of evil; and of
all that they might give, they keep aught that is precious
for themselves or their children,—and what is worse, oft-
times the poor seem but a burden to the rich.‘'1 In this
passage Rolle is obviously reminiscent, and the frequency
with which he reiterates that friendship is impossible
between a rich man and a poor is perhaps an allusion to
some difficulty between himself and his first patron, Sir
John Dalton.

Beside the passage in the Prologue‚where Rolle dedicates
his book “not to philosophers‚ nor wise men of this world,
nor great theologians wrapped about in endless question-
ings,'’ he inveighs in other places against those who have,
as he phrases it, “inter sapientes insanos seminauerunt
superbiam.” He quotes the saying of S. Ansam, that
“ an old wife is often more expert in the love of God than
the theologian,’' “because he studies for vanity that he
may be known and appear glorious, or that he may acquire
pensions ancl honours: and he deserves to be esteemed no
wise man, but a f001.”2 “ Philosophers have toiled much,
and yet have passed away without fruit: and many who
seemed Christians have done great things and shewn
wonders‚ and not merited salvation: for not to doers, but
to God's lovers belongs the abundance of the heavenly
crown.'’3 In another place Rolle complains of the in-
adequacy of the descriptions of these doctors as compared
with his own experience‚ and the remark is evidence that
he had not derived his theories from any one special
mystical writer: “Thus it happens to this manner of lover,
what Ι have never found or seen expressed in any doctor's

l. p. 197 2. p. 160. 3. p. 194.

